Here's an uncomfortable question.
Is one shape declared twice in your repo?
Your git history remembers the day the copies disagreed.
Open your git log and read the fix commits — the ones that say sync this with that, or forgot to update.
That's drift.
Already shipped.
So point your coding agent at your repo — Claude Code, Cursor, Copilot, whatever you run — and paste one message.
Nothing installs, nothing is edited.
It reads your code, your migrations, and your commit log, and builds a drift ledger — every row cites a file and line, or a commit.
No vibes.
In a blinded test on a real production codebase, it found an enum constraint that drifted across a hundred and forty-six migrations — fixed only after production errors.
A column the database widened weeks earlier that the code didn't know about.
And one field that took twenty-eight edits to land.
And every finding names the verify gate that turns it into a build failure, not an incident.
Not it might drift — it already did.
It's built to say no.
Verdicts include not a fit, and every report ships a what-you-will-not-get section.
If yes, you get a first-week plan.
One U R L — metaobjects dot dev slash assess dot em-dee.
Worst case, your repo's fine.
Best case, you stop shipping the same bug twice.